#Codebook
##Raw Data
The dataset that is generated by this code is created from the **Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set** which is located at the UCI Machine Learning Repository.  Further description of the source can be found here:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

The raw data set for this code is a copy of the one available from UCI and  was stored here for reference:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

For reference, here is the description of the raw data experiment which is included with the raw data:

> The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

> The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

A further description of the summary variables included with the raw data set, also directly quoted from the original source documentation is listed below for reference:

> The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

> Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

> Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

> These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

Each of the variables listed above were provided in the raw dataset sumarized using a variety of functions including mean and standard deviation values.  The result data set described by this codebook comes from the mean and standard deviation values provided in the raw data set.

##Selection of Summary Quantities
Additional summary quantities beyond standard mean and standard deviation were provided including the **Mean Frequency**.  Mean Frequency was not included in the output as it is based on a weighted average of frequencies as opposed to a stright average (and the assignment only asked for the mean and standard deviation of each variable).

##Units
All values of the raw summary variables were normalized to remove units from their values.  They all range from a value of -1 to 1 and so each of the resultant means described below is dimensionless.

##Variables Reported in this Data Set
The dataset created by the attached code consists the mean of each of the mean and standard deviation of variables in the raw data set, for each user and activity.

###activity
The activity performed by a subject sumarized in the remaining rows.  The possible values are:

-  WALKING
-  WALKING_UPSTAIRS
-  WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
-  SITTING
-  STANDING
-  LAYING

###subject
An anonymous identifier for the person who performed the activity in question which was recorded and summarized in the present row.  It is recorded as integer values ranging from 1 to 30.

###tBodyAccMEANXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the mean body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccMEANYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the mean body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccMEANZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the mean body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccSTDXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the standard deviation of body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccSTDYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the standard deviation of body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccSTDZMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the standard deviation of body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tGravityAccMEANXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the mean of gravity acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tGravityAccMEANYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the mean of gravity acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tGravityAccMEANZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the mean of gravity acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tGravityAccSTDXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the standard deviation of gravity acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tGravityAccSTDYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the standard deviation of gravity acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tGravityAccSTDZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the standard deviation of gravity acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccJerkMEANXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the mean of jerk body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccJerkMEANYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the mean of jerk body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccJerkMEANZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the mean of jerk body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccJerkSTDXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the standard deviation of jerk body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccJerkSTDYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the standard deviation of jerk body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccJerkSTDZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the standard deviation of jerk body acceleration measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroMEANXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the mean of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroMEANYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the mean of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroMEANZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the mean of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroSTDXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the standard deviation of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroSTDYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the standard deviation of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroSTDZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the standard deviation of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroJerkMEANXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the mean of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroJerkMEANYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the mean of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroJerkMEANZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the mean of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroJerkSTDXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the standard deviaion of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroJerkSTDYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the standard deviaion of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroJerkSTDZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the standard deviaion of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccMagMEANMEAN
Mean of the mean body acceleration magnitude measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccMagSTDMEAN
Mean of the standard deviation of the body acceleration magnitude measured in the time domain.

###tGravityAccMagMEANMEAN
Mean of the mean gravitational acceleration magnitude measured in the time domain.

###tGravityAccMagSTDMEAN
Mean of the standard deviation of the gravitational acceleration magnitude measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccJerkMagMEANMEAN
Mean of the mean body jerk acceleration magnitude measured in the time domain.

###tBodyAccJerkMagSTDMEAN
Mean of the standard deviation of body jerk acceleration magnitude measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroMagMEANMEAN
Mean of the mean gyroscope signal magnitude measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroMagSTDMEAN
Mean of the standard deviation of gyroscope signal magnitude measured in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroJerkMagMEANMEAN
Mean of the mean magnitude of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal in the time domain.

###tBodyGyroJerkMagSTDMEAN
Mean of the standard deviation of the magnitude of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal in the time domain.

###fBodyAccMEANXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the mean body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyAccMEANYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the mean body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyAccMEANZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the mean body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyAccSTDXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the standard deviation of body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyAccSTDYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the standard deviation of body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyAccSTDZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the standard deviation of body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyAccJerkMEANXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the mean of jerk body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain

###fBodyAccJerkMEANYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the mean of jerk body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain

###fBodyAccJerkMEANZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the mean of jerk body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain

###fBodyAccJerkSTDXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the standard deviation of jerk body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain

###fBodyAccJerkSTDYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the standard deviation of jerk body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain

###fBodyAccJerkSTDZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the standard deviation of jerk body acceleration transformed to the frequency domain

###fBodyGyroMEANXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the mean of the gyroscope signal transformed to the frequency domain

###fBodyGyroMEANYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the mean of the gyroscope signal transformed to the frequency domain

###fBodyGyroMEANZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the mean of the gyroscope signal transformed to the frequency domain

###fBodyGyroSTDXMEAN
Mean of the X component of the standard deviation of the gyroscope signal transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyGyroSTDYMEAN
Mean of the Y component of the standard deviation of the gyroscope signal transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyGyroSTDZMEAN
Mean of the Z component of the standard deviation of the gyroscope signal transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyAccMagMEANMEAN
Mean of the mean body acceleration magnitude transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyAccMagSTDMEAN
Mean of the standard deviation of the body acceleration magnitude transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyBodyAccJerkMagMEANMEAN
Mean of the mean body jerk acceleration magnitude transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyBodyAccJerkMagSTDMEAN
Mean of the standard deviation of body jerk acceleration magnitude transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyBodyGyroMagMEANMEAN
Mean of the mean gyroscope signal magnitude transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyBodyGyroMagSTDMEAN
Mean of the standard deviation of gyroscope signal magnitude transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagMEANMEAN
Mean of the mean magnitude of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal transformed to the frequency domain.

###fBodyBodyGyroJerkMagSTDMEAN
Mean of the standard deviation of the magnitude of the computed jerk of the gyroscope signal transformed to the frequency domain.

##References
Jeff Leek, PhD, Roger D. Peng, PhD, Brian Caffo, PhD. Assignment on Coursera.org. https://class.coursera.org/getdata-010/human_grading/view/courses/973497/assessments/3/submissions

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto. Data Set. Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory DITEN - Universit√  degli Studi di Genova, Genoa I-16145, Italy. Hosted by the UCI Machine Learning Repository: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones